Let's face it, every week you and I are
playing the game, what's the latest and
greatest in the AI space, right? It
changes every single week. And right
now, everyone is focused on LLM
knowledge bases, which originated from
this tweet from Andre Karpathy. And
there are a lot of really cool ideas
here that I want to get into with you.
And I built my own memory system on top
of this. I think you're really going to
like it's simple, but super effective.
So, more on that in a bit, but let's get
into a bit of context here. So Karpathy
starts by saying something I'm finding
very useful recently is using LLM to
build personal knowledge bases for
various topics of research interest. So
taking external information bringing it
into our own system and organizing it in
the best way for agents to query. And
this is a big use case for AI second
brains right now which is something I've
been focusing on a lot recently. And I
love seeing that he's using Obsidian as
a core part of his stack. I always call
it my canvas for working with things
with my second brain. So cool to see
that. And he really gives us his entire
playbook here. It's nice and simple. So
he talks about how he brings in
information data ingestion, how he views
it, how he queries it, how he formats
it, health checks that he's built in as
well. And so I want to cover this entire
architecture here and that'll guide us
into the custom solution that I've built
on top. And I'm excited to show you this
because here's the thing. This entire
thing that he's presenting is working
with external data which there are a lot
of use cases for that. But what I've
built here is working with internal
data. So giving claude code a memory
that evolves with your codebase. So
basing the whole LLM knowledge base on
our conversations with our coding agent
or second brain instead of bringing in
external data. But I've structured
everything in exactly the same way. all
of the optimizations for how we index
and create systems for our agent to
explore the information. It's really
cool. So, let's get into the
infrastructure and then I'll show you
how you can use this to evolve any
codebase. And yes, cloud code does
already have a memory system built in
and there are open- source solutions out
there already for claim memory. But I
wanted to build this specifically
because I am following everything
Harpathy laid out here to a tea just for
internal instead of external
information. It's a lot simpler than
other approaches already out there and I
would argue even more effective. You'll
see what I mean when we get into it. So,
something really interesting that he
says at the top here is he's spending
more of his tokens with his agents
manipulating knowledge like Markdown and
Obsidian instead of manipulating code.
But he works with knowledge in a very
similar way that we work with code. That
brings us to the compiler analogy. This
is the simplest way to explain
everything that he's built in the system
here because the way that we're handling
knowledge is very similar to how we take
source code all the way into a final
application for the end user to run with
a compiler. And so let let's take it
from the top here. So we start with our
source code which for the case of our
LLM personal knowledge bases, it's our
articles, papers, anything that we are
finding online that we want to bring
into our system. So I'll go to the
Obsidian vault because this is what
Karpathi uses. This is what I use for my
AI second brain. We have the raw folder
here. This is the entry point into our
system where we'll dump anything
articles, papers, transcripts,
everything just as raw markdown. And
then we'll take that and move it into
the compiler stage. This is where we
have a large language model process all
this raw information. So creating
summaries, linking documents together,
just generally figuring out how to
structure our knowledge. And for the
system that Karpathy has designed here
for the compiler, we do actually have
scripts. We have code that takes our raw
information, gives it to an LLM to
produce the wiki here. So that brings us
to the next step. The compiler goes to
the executable. This is what we run or
in the case of our personal knowledge
base. This is what we query. So he calls
it a wiki. This is where we have our
compiled articles, everything produced
from the large language model and we
have the back links. We are connecting
pieces of knowledge together. So going
back to Obsidian again, we have our
graph view. This is one of the coolest
parts of Obsidian where we can see how
our different pieces of knowledge, our
different markdown documents are
connected together through back links.
And this is powerful because it gives
our agent the ability to traverse
through the graph to search better and
even connect different pieces of
knowledge together to give us a more
comprehensive answer. So this is what we
run. This is what we search. But before
we actually get to the final step with
the runtime, we also have a test suite
to continue with the analogy of code.
Here we are performing linting. He calls
it linting over our documents. So we're
finding gaps where maybe we need to do
more research. Any kind of stale data,
things that maybe we have in our raw
folder that aren't actually in our wiki
yet and we need to take care of that
discrepancy. any kind of broken links.
Like if we have one document linking to
another that doesn't exist, we're going
to take care of all of that. And so
we're even going so far in this system
as to making sure that our data has
integrity. That's pretty important. We
want to have an accurate personal
knowledge base. And then finally, we get
into the last step here where we are
running queries, right? This is the
runtime where we are taking advantage of
our wiki, having our agents search
through it to find information for what
we are currently working on. And the
really interesting thing here is
Karpathy said, "I thought I had to reach
for fancy rag, but the large language
model has been pretty good about
automaintaining index files." And so one
of the most important files in this
entire setup within the wiki, we have
the index. So this file describes to the
agent here are all the different folders
and resources that you have access to.
So it uses this as a starting point. So
we don't even have to do fancy rag. The
agent can just navigate through all the
files that we have as marked on in our
obsidian vault. It doesn't have to do
any semantic search. There's no vector
database here. It's nice and simple.
It's one of the beauties of this
strategy that really drew me to build on
top of it. Okay, so let's now go from
the compiler analogy to the exact data
flow. I think this will really take it
home for you. Then we'll get into my
implementation that I built on top. I'll
talk about how it relates to all these
ideas here. So, okay, we start with our
external information, and Carpathy
specifically calls out the Obsidian Web
Clipper. It's a really neat extension to
Obsidian that allows us to very easily
take anything from the internet and
bring it directly into our vault or in
this case, right into our raw folder,
the source of truth, like we talked
about earlier, the unprocessed markdown
that we feed that into the large
language model to create our wiki for
us. And so, I've built up a simple
example here for demonstration. My raw
folder just has some different articles
on AI topics. And then within the wiki,
this is what is processed. This is what
our agent actually queries. We have this
concepts folder and this is where we tie
everything together. We're taking ideas,
concepts out of our raw documents. And
we also have connections, how different
things are relating together. And then
of course we have the index. This is the
main file that we want our agent to
always have access to so that it has a
highle idea of where it's going to start
looking based on our question. And then
the last thing that we have here is the
agents.mmd. So this is like global rules
for your coding agent, right? And so
really what we do in our global rules
here is we're describing the entire
system for LLM knowledge bases so the
agent understands here's where my
information comes from. Here's the
compiled version that I'm going to
search. Here is the index and the log
file, right? Like the entire system we
explain to the agent. So it has that
meta reasoning. It understands what it's
been dropped in. When you start a new
session with your second brain or coding
agent, whatever it is. And the best part
is if you want to build this entire LLM
knowledgebased system for yourself, all
you need to do is send this prompt into
your coding agent. It could not be
simpler. So this came directly from
Karpathy. He had a follow-up tweet where
he linked to this. This is essentially a
PRD, right? A product requirement
document that outlines everything we
have to build for you to include this
system in your own coding agent or
second brain. And so you just prompt
this in no other context and it's just
going to oneshot the whole thing for
you. And that's what I built into my
version as well. If you look at the
readme here for the quick start, you
don't even have to clone the repo
yourself. You just send this prompt into
your claude code, clone it, and then set
up everything with the claude code
hooks, everything that I have to make
this LLM personal knowledge base, but
for internal information instead of
external. So, inspired by the entire
architecture we just covered here, but
that's the key difference is now this is
giving Claude code a memory that evolves
with your codebase. So, instead of
taking things from the internet, we are
going to automatically capture session
logs with hooks. And so session logs are
kind of like the raw folder where we're
just putting in our conversations and
then we're going to use the claude agent
SDK behind the scenes to automatically
extract everything into structured cross
reference knowledge articles. So your
coding agent like you can do this per
codebase. It's going to get smarter and
smarter over time because it remembers
the decisions you've made and how you've
evolved your project. The sponsor of
today's video is InsForge. Insorgge is
an open- source platform that gives your
coding agent everything it needs to ship
full stack apps. Think if you had
Verscell, Superbase, and Open Router all
in one platform. So we have a database,
we've got authentication, storage, we
can route to 50 different large language
models. We have hosting as well. It is
everything you need. And we give our
agent the ability to manage all of this
through a CLI and an agent skill. And
take a look at this. It literally takes
less than 5 minutes to install the
InsForge CLI and skill on any codebase.
And then I can go into cloud code and
prompt it to create an application. So
here I'll have it make both a backend
and a front end. And I'm specifically
asking it to use infors to create my
database table, set up authentication to
host it as well. Once it goes through
this entire process here, then we end
with a hosted application. What I'm
showing you right here is a live URL.
And I have authentication set up. So I
can even demo this here. I created an
account off camera. I'll sign in. We
have access to our database behind the
scenes. So, this is not just local
storage, a hosted application, live
database. I can even use an AI model to
recommend a task for me here. So,
showing off the AI part of InsForge as
well. We have got everything running and
we didn't have to configure anything
oursel. Insource
and free to get started. Plus, you can
use promo code ins promo for a free
month of pro. I'll have a link in the
description. So, seriously, you should
just try this right now. Open up Cloud
Code in whatever codebase you're
currently working on, your second brain,
Open Cloud, whatever, and just send in
this prompt. It'll immediately level up
the long-term memory for your coding
agent when it's working on that project
specifically. We're building up lessons
and takeaways for this codebase. And so,
I have the repository cloned locally.
I'm just going to work within it
directly to give you an example here,
but you're going to use this prompt to
bring it into wherever you are already
working. And so you don't have to do
this, but I would recommend starting
with an Obsidian vault. It's our canvas
to view all of the memories and the
whole wiki that we create with Claude
Code. And so you'll open a folder as a
vault. Once you have Obsidian installed,
it's free and super easy to install. So
I'll open here and you just have to give
it a path to where wherever you have the
code base that you've brought in this
system. So I'll just select this folder
right here. That'll create a brand new
Obsidian vault. I usually like to make
it look nice as well when I first create
a vault. So, I'll go into the settings
in the bottom left. I'll go to
appearance and then manage to select a
theme. They got a lot of really awesome
ones. Obsidianite is my favorite. So, I
will click install and use. And then I
usually like to switch to the dark theme
as well. There we go. Now, it looks like
the other vault I showed you earlier for
a demo. And so, this is where we're
going to manage the daily logs. I'll
talk about this in a second. And then
also, this is our wiki equivalent where
we have our index. I mean, everything.
This is exactly what Karpathy has set up
with the concepts and connections
everything that we use a large language
model to process from our raw input. So
this entire system is only driven by
claude code hooks. That's the
beautifully simple part about it. That's
why all you have to do is send in this
prompt to get everything set up for your
codebase where you run cloud code. We
don't have to install anything else. We
don't have to set up any integrations.
And so going to our settings.json, JSON.
This is where you always define your
hooks for cloud code. I want to at least
at a high level show you how everything
works here. I think it'll really click
for you. So, we start with a session
start hook. And so, this is going to run
whenever we start a new cloud code
session. And all we're doing with this
simple Python script is loading in the
agents.mmd. We covered this earlier.
That's so our cloud code understands the
system that we put in it. And then it's
also loading in, if we go into the
knowledge, this is our wiki equivalent.
We're loading in our index.mmd. You've
already seen this as well. This is our
actively maintained list of files. So
our agent can query more efficiently.
And so whenever we begin a new cloud
code session, it has both of those
things already. And so now I can ask a
question just for demo purposes. I have
a knowledge base already built up for a
project. And so I'm asking something
that it wouldn't really know by itself
without having to do deep analysis in
the codebase. But right here, it's just
going to rely directly on what we have
in our knowledge base. Take a look at
that. Based on your knowledge base, here
are the key things to watch out for.
Then some technical details we don't
have to cover here. But then it calls
out the specific KB articles that it
referenced in order to get us this
answer. And so the index told it where
to point. It ran some queries that we'll
talk about in a little bit. And it
pulled things from our knowledge. And so
again, we have the equivalent of our raw
folder with our daily logs. This is
where we're going to capture summaries
of every single conversation with cloud
code. I'll show you how we do that with
the other hooks in a second. So, daily
logs, that's our raw equivalent. And
then we have our wiki. This is where we
have the things that are better
formatted, linked together. We have the
whole graph view here in Obsidian. This
is what our agent is searching through.
And I know this is a really basic
example here, but just like think for a
second how powerful this actually is. If
I asked this question without this whole
system built in, it would have had to
look through the git log and even that
might not have had the lessons for what
to watch out for. It would have had to
spin up sub aents to look through the
codebase, which would be painfully slow,
especially if the codebase was bigger.
But since we're maintaining takeaways
from all of our conversations with cloud
code, I was able to get this answer in
like 10 seconds. You saw it happen live.
And so the other really powerful part of
this entire system is the other two
hooks. We have a pre-ompact and a
session end. And they're both actually
doing a very similar thing. Whenever
we're about to lose context, either
through closing off a session or doing
memory compaction, we want to send the
latest messages from cloud code into
another large language model to process
and create the summary. And that summary
is what we're going to put in the daily
log file. So like this is the summary
from one conversation, you know,
decisions that were made, lessons that
were learned, action items, and then we
go on to the next session. We have a
very standard format here handling every
single Claude code session. And the way
that this works is this hook, actually
both of these hooks, they are going to
call the Claude agent SDK under the
hood. So we have a separate Claude
process running where it's just given
the transcript from the conversation and
it summarizes things here. So, we're
doing that initial layer of data
processing. And not to get too technical
here, but one other really powerful part
of this is we have the flush process.
And so once a day, we're going to take
the logs, we're going to extract the
concepts and connections from them. And
then that's what we populate in the
wiki. And then our search is going to
focus here in knowledge, but then it can
also look through the daily logs if we
want as well. So we have full
information about everything here.
lessons learned, decisions made. If you
want to customize this, you can even go
into the scripts here. You can go into
the flush or you could go into the
compile and you can actually change the
prompt that we send into the cloud agent
SDK under the hood. So, another
beautiful part about this whole setup,
unlike Claude Code's memory system, is
you can customize this to your heart's
content. And Claude Code can even walk
you through making the customizations
because it has access to the agents.m
MD. It knows how everything works. It
knows where the prompts are. It knows
how the memory promotion process works.
It knows where the daily logs are. So,
it's very it's a very self-contained
system that can improve itself. And
speaking of improving itself, that's
actually the last big thing that I want
to cover with you. I want to talk about
the compounding loop. Cuz think about
this with me for a second. We always
will start by asking some kind of
question. We want to leverage our
knowledge base. We're going to get some
kind of answer with our agent searching
across many different wiki articles. So
it's extending its arm across our
knowledge base, synthesizing information
together, but then it's going to file
that single answer. So we're constantly
connecting information between our
conversations and saving that. And so
our wiki grows over time because of
that. And then also all the new
information coming in from all of our
future Claude code sessions. And so
we're building up our knowledge base
over time. The agent is going to be able
to search through our knowledge better
over time. As we ask more questions, it
just gets better and better and better.
And we really don't have to do anything
to maintain this. For example, if I
extend the conversation where I asked
our first question here to have it do
more web research, I have more
takeaways. All I have to do is end this
session or do a memory compaction and
then automatically we can see that the
logs are I saw this just come up here.
We already have the cloud agent SDK
running in the background. It can use
your anthropic subscription just like
cloud code. You don't have to set up any
API key or anything and it's
automatically going to extract takeaways
and put it in our daily logs. Let's
actually look at this right now cuz I
believe it already finished. There we
go. Take a look at this. So this is our
session that just ran. We were exploring
best practices for handling external
service data and then we have these key
exchanges lessons learned from our
additional web research. We're building
this up over time. It'll eventually get
promoted into our wiki here. We don't
have to do anything and the questions
that we ask our agent are just going to
get better and better answers over time.
Very very powerful. So there you go.
That is LLM knowledge bases for internal
data long-term memory for our second
brains instead of external data like
Karpathy's implementation. But of
course, thanks to him for all of the
inspiration here. And Claude Code Hooks
is something I've been building into my
second brain for a long time now. And so
I recently did a 4-hour workshop in the
Dynamis community where I showed
everything. I actually built my second
brain again from scratch. And so
definitely check out the Dynamus
community linked in the description and
pin comment if you're interested in
building your own second brain on top of
Cloud Code and the Cloud Agent SDK.
Otherwise, if you appreciated this video
and you're looking forward to more
things on building agents and second
brains, I would really appreciate a like
and a subscribe. And with that, I will
see you in the next